# Bypassing AV Detection

AV evasion falls into two broad categories.

1. On-disk 
2. in-memory

**On-disk**

its focus on modify malicious file physically stored on disk in an attempt to evade AV detection. there are various techniques used to obfuscate files stored on a physical disk.

*packers*

packers are originally design to simply reduce the site of an executables.packer generate an executable that are not only small in size but also functionally equivalent with the completely new binary structure.this new file has new signature and thus most of AV are not able to detect it.

*Obfuscators*

this method reorgnize and mutate code in a way that makes it more difficult to reverse-engineer. this includes replacing instruction with semantically equivalent one, insert irrelevent instruction or insert dead code, splitting or reordering functions and so on.

*Crypters*

it cryptographically alters executable code. adding a decrypting stub that restores the original code upon execution. this decryption happen in-memory leaving only the encrypted code on disk.its most effective AV evasion technique.

*software protectors*

effective AV evasion technique requires a combination of all of the previous tech in additon to other ones. 

**in-memory**

in-memory injection also knows as PE injection is technique used to bypass antivirus products, this tech focus on manipulation of volatile memory. it does not write any files on disk.

*remote process memory injection*

this method attempt to inject the payload into another valid PE that is not malicious.

*Reflective DLL injection*

this technique attempt to load a DLL stored by the attacker in the process memory.

*process hollowing*

attacker first launch a non-malicious process in a suspended state.once launced the image of process is removed from memory and replaced by malicious executables image , finally the process is then resumed and malicious code is executed insted of ligitimate process.