
# Finding Your Way Around linux

## The linux Filesystem

linux adheres to the filesystem hierarchy standard (FHS), which provied a familier and universal layout for all linux users.

`/bin` : basic program (ls,cat ,cd ) <br>
`/sbin`: system program (fdisk,mkfs,sysctl) <br>
`etc`  : configuration files <br>
`tmp`  : temp files , deleted on boot.<br>
`usr/bin` : applications (apt , ncat , nmap ) <br>
`usr/share`: applications support and data files. 

## Basic linux cmds

**man pages**
linux cmd lines provides a formal piece of documentation often called manual pages, `man` cmd is used to view this pages.

**apropos**
with apropos cmd we can search the list of man page description for a possible match based on keyword.

		apropos partition


**other basic cmd which help to move around linux**

`cd` : change directory <br>
`pwd`: present working directory <br>
`ls `: list directory <br>
`mkdir`:make directory

## Finding files in linux 

we used three common cmd to locate the file in file system.find , locate , which

**which**
the `which` cmd searches through the directories that are defined in the `$PATH` env variables.
		
		$ which python3
		/usr/bin/python3

**locate**
its quickest way to find the loation of files.<br>
In order to provide a much shorter search time, locate searches a built-in database named locate.db rather than the entire hard disk.

		$ locate sbd.exe
		/usr/share/windows-resources/sbd/sbd.exe

**find**

its most complex cmd and flexible to search among the three.

```bash
find /path/to/search <flags>
```

`-type` : type of file to search . `d` for directories, `f` for files. <br>
`-name` : name or pattern to search, You can type the whole name, or use wildcards to specify only part(s) of the name. <br>
`iname` : same as `-name` but case sensitive. <br>

`-user` : search by the owner of files.<br>
`-size` : The size of a file is specified with the `-size` flag. When using numerical values, the formats `-n`, `+n`, and `n` can be used, where `n` is a number. `-n` matches values lesser than `n`, `+n` matches values greater than `n`, and `n` matches values exactly `n`. To specify a size, you also need a suffix. `c` is the suffix for bytes, `k` for KiB’s, and `M`for MiB’s. So, if you want to specify a size less than 30 bytes, the argument `-30c` should be used.

`-perm` : search files by permissions.we can define permission either in octal form (ex. 644) or in symbolic form (ex. u=r)

`-exec` : You can use it in your find command to execute a new command, following the `-exec` flag, like so: `-exec whoami \;`