# The Bash Environment

bash is an sh-compatible shell that allow us to run complex cmds and perform different task from terminal windows.

## Environmental variable

when we open new terminal windows, a new bash process, which has its own env variables is initalized.<br>
this env variables are used in various settings and also used by applications that are running during terminal session.<br>

we can use env varible with `$`.example `echo $USER`

we can also define our own env variable using export cmd.

		$ export ip=10.10.10.10

but this will remove after we close the bash shell. to add permenent env variable we can define them in `.bashrc` file.
there are many env variable define in linux we can see all this by using `env` cmd.


## bash history tricks.

with help of `history` cmd we can see the priviously entered cmds in linux.<br>
rather than re-typing long cmd in history we can use history expansion facility.<br>
we use `!` with the cmd number to reuse cmd in history.
if we type `ls -la` cmd priviously and we want to use it again we use.

		$ !1

also we can use `!!` to repeat last cmd.

		$ !!
		cat /etc/shadow

**HISTSIZE and HISTFILESIZE**

by default cmd history is saved in .bash_history file in user home directory. two env variable control history size.

`HISTSIZE` : it control the number of cmd stored in memory for current session. <br>
`HISTFILESIZE` : it configure how many cmd are kept in .bash_history file.

*holding down `ctrl+R` will invoke the reverse-i-search facility.